It was gone.
In a single morning,
more than$40 million had just disappeared
from one ofFrance's biggest banks.
When the police finallygot into the vault,
it was obvious that this was no ordinary bank robbery.
Instead of breakinginto the bank itself,
the thieves had tunneledall the way from the sewers
and straight throughthe concrete walls of the vault.
When inside,
they ransacked the safe deposit boxes,
takinggold, cash, and precious jewels
before vanishing back into the sewers.
It's not every day that yousuddenly decide to rob a bank,
But in September1974
that's exactly what happened to Albert Spaggiari.
Hehad just become a customer of the Société Générale
and went to drop off some money into asafe deposit box.
When he was inside the vault,
he noticed that there wasn't a single alarm inthe entire vault.
To make sure he was correct,
the next day he placed an alarm clock
insidehis safe deposit box
and set it to go off at 1:00AM
If there was an alarm
surely the soundof his clock would trigger it.
That evening
Albert waited in a bar across the street
andwhen 1:00 AM arrived, nothing happened.
Atthis point, he knew he was going to rob thebank
but he still had no idea how.
Then,when he was scoping out the exterior ofthe bank,
he overheard a conversation.
Suddenly, it clicked in Albert's head.
Niceused to have a river running through its center
where many of the old sewer lines fed into.
Butafter decades of building on top of the river
this area was now completely underground
andenormous tunnels had been built
to handle theriver during a flood.
If one of these sewertunnels went anywhere near the bank,
itcould allow Albert to dig his way into the vault
without anyone noticing.
Albert managed to get hishands
on blueprints of the city's sewer system.
According to these,
there was a ramp underneath the convention center
that led down into thecity's main sewage tunnels.
From there,
a service road inside the tunnel followed the old river
until it reached the Masséna Plaza.
Then a smallersewage tunnel broke off
and ran underneath thestreets and crucially right past the bank.
Beingthe well-connected criminal that he was,
Albertquickly pulled together a team of around 20 men.
He had tunneling experts, plumbers, electricians,welders.
These guys were professionals,
and all they needed now was the equipment.
To be extracautious
Albert traveled all across France and Europe
buying things in small quantities to leaveno obvious trace.
The idea was that all of theequipment
left behind after the heist
would leadthe police on a wild goose chase,
one that wouldultimately lead them nowhere.
With everythingbought
the sewer rats could now start digging.
Some of the team entered the sewers via the ramp
and drove over a mile to reach the sewage tunnel.
From there, they had to walk around 300 m
to reach the crucial digging point.
The rest of the gang entered the sewers
through an access roomin an underground parking garage.
From there
the crew ran an enormous electrical cable
from theoutlet in the parking garage down into the sewers,
giving them power for lights and tools.
Likea well-oiled machine, they started drilling,
removing tons of rock
and piling it upin an unused part of the sewer.
To avoidany suspicion from the town's sewage workers,
they cemented up the entrance of their tunnel
to make it look identical to the other tunnelentrances.
Once they were done for the night,
they'd leave all of their equipment coveredup inside
a hole in the tunnel and quietlymake their way out.
For 2 months,
the team wentdown into the sewers
and worked on their tunnel.
Many of the crew were above ground on lookout
with radios that allowed them to warn the crew
if anyone was entering the sewers.
The wholeoperation was so professional
and after 2months of straight digging,
they knew they hadto be getting close.
Then one night in July
the crew finally hit the concrete walls of thevault
but the timing was terrible.
That weekend,
the president of France had made a last minutevisit to Nice
and there were enormous amounts
of police and security in the city.
It was notthe time to be robbing a bank.
Albert decided tocall off the heist until the following weekend
which was a holiday weekend.
This meant thatthe bank would be closed,
giving the crew moretime to break in
and get as much as possible.
In the meantime,
Albert had some other matters toattend to.
Since he was the mayor's photographer,
he was actually a guest at the president'sevent.
Just hours before this picture was taken,
Albert was down in the tunnel
digging his way to the city's biggest bank.
He was managing thewhole operation incredibly well
and it was allthanks to Odoo.
Just kidding.
Odoo is an all-in-one business management software
that offersentrepreneurs more than 45 apps
to help withmanaging their business
from sales, invoicing,accounting,
website creation, and so much more.
What makes Odoo really powerful is that
the apps are integrated into one centralized platform,
so you don't waste time juggling external
tools or programs that don't work together.
For example,
your sales are directly linked to theaccounting app
and inventory management
as well as your website.
Odoo even adapts everythingto your country.
Taxes, currencies, rates,and regulations
are all automatically adjusted
soyou don't have to worry about it.
Odoo automates asmany operations as possible,
freeing you from theboring administrative tasks
and simplifying thedaily management of your business.
Best of all,Odoo's interface is simple and super intuitive.
Nomatter what type of business you have,
Odoo's appswill fit into your workflow
without adding anymore complications.
To get started with Odoo,
checkout the link in the description.
The first Odooapplication is free for life,
including unlimitedhosting and support.
After that, as your business grows,
you can easily add more apps when you needthem
and have access to all the applications
atan affordable subscription.
It's Saturday, the17th of July.
After hours of chipping away at thereinforced concrete,
the sewer rats now had theirfirst glimpse inside the vault.
The bank would beopening up on Monday morning,
so the crew had justover 30 hours to get in,
take as much as possible,
and leave through the sewers without gettingcaught.
Later that evening,
the hole was finallybig enough for the gang to enter the vault.
Aftermonths of digging, it was time to start the heist.
Over the next 30 hours,
the gang went crazy,prying open the safe deposit boxes
and taking asmuch as they could.
They found everything.
Stacksof gold bars, cash, jewels, stock certificates,
and even some saucy photographs of highup politicians,
which the crew hung onthe walls of the tunnel.
After 30 hours,
the crewfinally took a break, had dinner inside the vault,
and celebrated with bottles of red wine.
But timewas almost up, and at 5:00 AM on Monday morning,
they packed up the last bit of treasure and leftthe vault,
leaving behind one final message on thewall.
They loaded the stash into the getaway car
and disappeared into the city just before sunrise.
A few hours later, at 8:00 AM,
the bank wasgetting ready to open.
One of the workers went to open the vault door,
but surprisingly, it didn'tmove.
The lock mechanism was working perfectly,
but the door just would not open.
As it turnedout, just before the crew had left the vault,
they had welded the door shut,
buying them someextra time.
After several hours of confusion,
the bank decided to drill their way into the vault.
And only then was it obvious what had happened.
It might seem like the police had a lot ofevidence.
Equipment had been littered acrossthe vault and in the sewers.
Surely somethingwould lead to one of the thieves.
But amazingly,
not a single fingerprint was found.
The crewhad worn gloves the entire time.
Even theurine came back with no results
since multiplepeople had urinated in every single bottle.
Albert and his crew had thought of everything.
Butwhat he didn't know
was that the events that would lead to his arrest
had already taken place 2 weeksbefore the heist.
Up in the mountains,
the policewere called to a villa.
Normally, this villa wasempty,
but the neighbor had seen a suspiciousgroup of men
constantly leaving and enteringthe villa.
When the police questioned the men,
they simply said that they had permission from theowner
to use the villa.
Something wasn't right,
but there was nothing more the police could do.
Sothey took down the names of the men and left.
But when the heist later became
headline news all overthe country,
the police officers couldn't shaketheir suspicion
that the villa had something to dowith the heist.
And so they got a search warrant and returned to the villa.
After 100 days of theinvestigation leading nowhere,
they were about toget their first clue.
Inside the villa,
the placewas full of tools, equipment, and dirty clothes,
all identical to those found in the sewers.
Twoof the men from the villa,
Alain Bournat and FrancisPellegrin
were arrested
and almost immediately,they told the police everything,
even namingAlbert Spaggiari
as the mastermind behind the wholething.
The police were finally getting somewhere.
Now they had to find their biggest target.
ButAlbert was gone.
Just a few days after the heist,
he fled the country
and spent the next 2 months
traveling through Guatemala and the US.
When he was there, he even made a phone call to the CIA
and admitted to being the mastermind behind theheist.
He was getting overconfident
and eventually returned to Nice and continued living his life.
Then one morning, while having lunch with his wifein a cafe,
Albert was approached by the waitress.
When he walked out, he was instantly
surrounded by police officers and arrested.
Over the next 36 hours,
thepolice interrogated Albert
but he refused to give them anyinformation.
It wasn't until hisfirst court appearance
that he finallystarted to talk.
Very little of what Albert said in courtwas accurate.
He was just playing with thepolice
and wasting the judge's time.
Overthe winter, Albert went to court everyweek
and continued to give vague and inaccurateinformation.
But on his 20th visit to the court,
things would go a bit differently.
As always, Albert was taken up to thejudge's office
where the police uncuffedhim and locked the doors.
The week before,
Albert had promised the judge
that he wouldgive him a detailed description
of how theheist went down.
And so, Albert pulled out apiece of paper
and put it on the judge's desk.
Suddenly, Albert ran to the nearest window,
threwit open, and jumped out.
He landed on a ledge,
rolled, and jumped onto a car that wasparked below,
making a giant dent in theroof.
Right beside the car was a motorbike
withthe rider revving its engine.
Albert hopped on,
and in just a matter of seconds, he was gone.
The French borders were closed
and all flightsleaving the country were cancelled
but it wastoo late.
Albert had vanished.
As it turned out,
Albert had fled to South America.
And with the helpof plastic surgery and a wig,
he was now living indisguise.
A few months after his escape,
he senta picture of himself to a local newspaper saying,
"Greetings from Albert."
He even sentthe owner of the car that he damaged,
$600, and an apology note.
In France, thecourts had sentenced him to life in prison,
but he still managed to come back every now andthen
and visit his mom and his wife.
In the end,
just four men were convicted
and onlyserved about 6 months in jail.
Albert lived the rest of his life as a free man
until he eventually died of cancer in 1989.